2957-A

Le : pervision. This indicates a need to clarify
isory practices in music education.

process of supervision in music is a complex and demanding

responsibility that requires an experienced and setae informed
PETSAR..

A curi an adva i} degree in music supervision should

: (1) curriculum development, (2)

lip, 3) | individual and group dynamics, (4)

 ?oVi tase egr can and its use, (5) educational administration,

A
(6) p sabiie ¢ relations technics, (7) budget and finance, (8) research

18100 and

methods a1 Na their use in music supervision and (9) trends and |

issues in education and

M $4.00; X $6.00. 108 pages

CONTRAPUNTAL-HARMONIC FACTORS IN SELECTED
WORKS OF BELA BARTOK  ?"

Lawrence William HARTZELL, Ph.D.
University of Kansas, 1970

The importance of counterpoint in the music of Béla Bartok was first
documented by the composer himself, when he observed that his music
became more contrapuntal after 1926. This increase resulted from the use
of such traditional contrapuntal procedures as fugue, canon, and imitative
counterpoint. These procedures, however, were employed within the
confines of homophonic forms, implying a definite relationship between the
disciplines of counterpoint and harmony.  ?~Therefore, it is the purpose of this
dissertation to analyze contrapuntal passages from important compositions
written between the years 1926-1945 in order to ascertain specific methods
of constructing and combining melodic lines to produce harmonic sonori-
ties and functions.

The study is divided into five chapters, the first of which is introductory
and covers important literature relating to the composer and the specific
interests of the dissertation procedure. Chapter II deals with the individual
melodic lines, while Chapters III and IV treat two-part textures and three-
and four-part textures respectively. Chapter V gives a summary of the
study's findings, conclusions based on that summary, and recommenda-
tions for continued study of Bartok ?Ts contrapuntal-harmonic textures.

The above chapters employ the following procedures as a means of

obtaining material. Freguencies of Occurrence for melodic and harmonic
_ Materials are compiled-and compared to similar findings in the music of
Johann Sebastian Bach. Bach was chosen because literature concerning his
ausic is well-known, providing a common point of reference; and many of
his practices may be observed in the music of Béla Bartok. Various methods
of developing sonority, tonality, harmonic progression, and harmonic
rhythm are discussed and submitted to internal comparisons. That is,
practices observed in two-part textures are used as standards by which
similar or dissimilar findings in three- and four-part writing are measured,
in an effort to ascertain stylistic consistency within the various textures.
Bartok's contrapuntal melodies are found to be primarily conjunct, but
somewhat chromatic due to a high degree of minor seconds. The most
- chromatic melodies are from three- and four-part contrapuntal textures,
with melodies from two-part textures being considerably more diatonic.
_Tonality is attained in all textures by (1) construction of melodies on
material from one diatonic scale, (2) construction of melodies on material
from two ?T scales of different diatonic formula based on the same tonal
center, (3) construction of melodies on scale fragments. In all textures,
thirds and sixths are found to be the most significant intervals in the
construction of harmonic sonorities, with major seconds-minor sevenths,
perfect fourths and fifths, and the tritone of secondary importance. Har-
monic progression is found to be of two types. Either a given texture
employs such a strong harmonic motion that the contrapuntal lines tend
to emphasize their inherent harmonic properties, or a given texture em-
_ ploys such a strong contrapuntal motion that harmonic progression seems
to result from the coincidental union of melodies. Rhythm plays an impor-
tant part in the combination of contrapuntal and harmonic elements, in
that a definite rhythm or rhythmic pattern is caused to recur at regular
intervals, providing a norm against which an ntegular harmonic rhythm
is set.
In conclusion, the present study reveals that Bartok ?Ts contrapuntal-
harmonic writing is a combination of traditional and non-traditional ele-
ments. This may be seen in his use of such traditional elements as diatonic

scales, tertian-based soul sr aegi sonorities, th e concept of tonal ily, and defi-

nite harmonic motion al i progi ression: and Suc; ik tv] mic ally * wentiet n-Coi

tury materials as baie! and quintal harmonies, asymmetric
asymmetric measure divisions, and the exiensive use of the iritone. Final
various imiportant relationships between counterpoint and harmony
enumerated.

Order No. 70-25,343

M $4.00; X $10.15. 225 pages.

E i EVOL UTION OF IDIOMATIC AND PSYCHOACOUSTICAL
RCES AS A BASIS FOR UNITY IN ELECTRONIC

Otto Walker HENRY, Ph.D.
Tulane University, 1970

Chairman: Robert E. Preston

This dissertation established that a community of ideas, con
direction exists in certain types of progressive or a  ?~i
music. The basis of unity 1 is identified as a common approach to the concep-
tualization of music as acoustical or shecsvdlabpaiaticnl sound, rathe
the use of sound as an agent for expressing syntactical relations ship s and
symbolic meanings. A distinction is made between the linguistic, télelogical
and holomorphic concepts of traditional music and the | autonomous and
idiomorphic treatment of structural relationships and compositional deter-

ninants in recent electronic music.

The concept of the structural areas of music as parameters is reviewed.
The use and function of pitch, timbre, duration and intensity in electronic
music are re-defined as individual totalities which commonly exhibit total
range and total ambience. It is shown that equality among the parameters
in electronic music has occurred through the reduction of pitch and dura-
tion from proportional absolutes to proportional analogies.

The principal organizational resource is identified as valence, a syner-
getic approach originating in the electroacoustical concept of modulation.

han

- The determinants of relationship and organization are described as the

acoustical resources of overtones, combination tones and beating, the elec-
troacoustical resources of circuits and circuit-systems, and the psychologi-
cal resources of contrast, denegation and surprise.

Historical precedents are considered and pertinent areas of psy-
choacoustical research and technological development are summarized and
documented throughout. Related developments in recent vocal and instru-
mental music are noted and interpreted as indications of a synthesis of
mid-twentieth century style in which the differences between the electronic
and instrumental idioms are minimized through a common approach to
music as acoustical sound.

Order No. 70-24,525 M $4.00; X $12.85. 284 pages.

THE GRADUALE DOMINICALE (MEXICO: PEDRO OCHARTE,
1576) OF JUAN HERNANDEZ, [STUDIES IN MUSIC # 45}

Enid Patricia HOUSTY, Ph.D.
The Catholic University of America, 1970

This copy of the 1576 Gradual Dominicale (Sunday Gradua/) in the
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., is a very early SIE of a liturgi-
cal book with music printed in America. The chants of the Mass as con-
tained in this Gradua/ have been revised by Hernandez to conform to the
decrees of the Council of Trent.

This dissertation presents a study of Hernandez ?T versions of the chant
melodies. And in an effort to determine the extent and nature of these
revisions of the chant, comparisons are made between Hernandez ?T work
and the following sources: the Vatican edition of the Gradua/ (Rome,
1908), the Urbinas Gradua/(Venice, 1560), and the Ratisbon edition of the
Gradual (Rome, 1884).

Analysis of the sources shows that the chant in the sixteenth century

was still enjoying a period of growth with the composition of new melodies

and the revision of of the old melodies. Hernandez ?T revisions which are
based on his treatment of the melismas include variations in the grouping
of notes, the modification of the  ?oreiterative style, ?  and the reduction of
the length of the standard phrases.