KUWAIT (AP) - Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau said Saturday he will try to press both the United States and Soviet Union to renew efforts toward limiting nuclear arms.

' He said the belief that the superpowers must make )it^ress on arms control )efore other steps could be taken was almost universal among the three other maj(Nr nuclear powers he has * visited, France, China and Britain.

He made the comments to reporters in Kuwait, the last stop of a five-day Persian Gulf tour.

Trudeau has been trying to

arrange a summit meeting (rf the five major nuclear )Owers to negotiate a &gt;reakthrough toward nuclear arms control.

He said he had been invited to Moscow and Washington, but whether he visits them &quot;(tepenfb a little bit (m the rKults of the NATO ministe

rial meeting in Brussels. y

The defense ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization are meeting Tuesday and Wednesday in Bnssels, Belgium.

The Soviets have continued to negotiate with the United States on long-range nuclear, weapons.

Card of Thanks

The femlly of Eugene Briley would like to thank all relatives and friends for the cards, flowers phone calls received during their

and

bereavement.

Mrs. Clara Briley and Family

MO.VDAY 12 Noon - Greenville Noon Rotary'Club meets at Rotary BIdg 12:30 p.m. - Kiwanis qf Greenville-University Club meets at Holiday Inn 5:30 p.m. - Greenville TOPS

r*l&gt;ih &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;at &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bssk

6:30p.m. Rotary Clubmeets 6:30 p.m. - Host Lions Club meets at Tom's Restaurant 6:30 p.m. - Optimist Club meets at Three Steers 7:30 p.m. - Sweet Adelines. Eastern Chapter meets at The Memoriar Baptist Church 7:30 p.m. Woodmen of the World' Simpson Lodge meets at

community bldg. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-------------

7:30 p.m - Greenville Barber Shop Chorus meets at Jaycee Park Bldg

8:00 p m. - Lodge No. 885 Loyal Order of the Moosfe

TIESPAY 7:00 a m - Greenville Breakfast Lions Club meets at Three Steers 10:00 a.m. - Kiwanis Golden K Club meets at Masonic Hall 11:45 a m. Round Table luncheon at the Greenville Country Club

7:00 pm -r Family.,. .Support Group at Family Practice Center 7:30 p.m Tar River Civitan Club meets at First Presbyterian Church

7:20 p.m. Grrenv'lle Chora.t Society rehearsal at Immanuel Baptist Church 7:30 pm. Vernon Howard Success Without Stress study group at HON. Warren St 7:30 p m. Toughlove Mrents support group at St. Paul's Episcopal Church 8:00 p m. - The Bog Book Group of AA has closed meeting at St. James United Methodist Church 8:00 pm. - Narcotics Anonymous meeting at Piney Grove Free Will Baptist Church

Shop Indoors For Your Christmas Tree

Worthington Warehouse

264 Bypass West Farmville

Freshly Cut And Kept In Wcrter

Frasier Firs

Red Cedars (Sheared); Virginia Pine (Shearecl)

Bring Your Stand And Well Mount Your Tree.

Also Availabte Artificial Wreaths, Live Weaths And Roping. Opens Friday, November 25th Hours: Monday Through Saturday 10 til 7

Sunday 2 til 7

Its a special j place to be for | Christmas.

Santas Schedule: Dec. 1 thru Dec. 24 Mon. thru Fri.

4 P.M. til 8 P.M. Saturday 12 til 8 P.M.

Santas One Stop Shopping Center ptt Plaza