Public Forum

The Daily Ratlector, Greenville, N.C. Sunday. December 4.1983 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A-5

TotheedHor: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;---------

Followng my last letter to The Daily Reflector, I received a great deal of su^xmI and encouragement from people who share my conceni about unfair medical charges in the area. As a result of this, plus some further information on the issue at hand, I again feel compelled to state my &quot;case furthw.

In addition to the itemized charges in my last letter ^wcerning the gentleman who xlied in Pitt Ccnty Memorial Hospital after only a 51-minute stay, I have since been infomed of | further charge from the ECU School of Medicine. Therefore, I feel it necessary to present again the charges, including the last one: operating room - $850; emergency room - $241; M-S-C supples - $417.25; Additional charges - $1,399; hospital total - $2,907.25; Pitt County Anesthesia - $506; ECU Medical School - $896.50; total to date-$4,309.75.

Notice that 1 have labeled the above tataLta.date^Who knows what Other charges may arise? Indeed, it does seem as if each branch of the Pitt County medical hierarchy has contributed a bill to this mans family. Where does it stop?

Mr. Fred Brown, hospital vice president, appeared on television recently on behalf of Pitt County Memwial Hospital offering his explanation of the bUl and concluding that the charges were approximately $50 a minute. Now, I ask you to divide 51 minutes into the total bill so far of $4,309.75 and see if your answer is $50.

E.F. House

To the editor;

Below is a copy of a letter sent by me to Edith Webber. Please consider publishing it in your Public Forum column. Thank you.

Dear Edith,

I saw the eiditorial about the movie,. The Day After, and had the same reaction to it that you so ably expressed in your letter to Public Forum. I thought the editor treated the subject with a deplorable amount of complacency and really did a disservice.

Why not tell pwple what concrete steps ought to be taken rather than lulling them into an unrealistic false sense of security? Any thinking person could see around this irresponsible attitude.

I join with you in your moral indignation at this kind of editorial mush. Persons who are editors ought ta do a bit of homework and become responsible citizens. Newspapers are important in forming public opinion. Public opinion could possibly prevent a holocaust someday, among other things.

Thanks, Edith, for having the courage and taking time to WHiej^our outstanding letter to the editor in last Sundays -Public Forum

Barbara Ingnito

Greenville ___

Stvt

Grstfl

(A Much Bigger Bang For The Buck'

WASHINGTON (UPI) - In the waning hours of the recently completed session, Seri. J(rfin Tower carved out time to lecture Congress on its tight-fisted treatment of defense spending.

Tower, using-.l^lunt language, told his. colleagues that more money spent in the last two years would have translated into big savii^ in the years ahead.

And, Tower said, the country would have gotten a much bigger bang for the buck with just a little foresight.

That kind of talk, coming from the vest-pocket Republican, is not surprising. '

A Navy veteran who served tai an gunboat in Pacific during World War, Tower is a hard-line conservative on military matters, an unabashed hawk.

As chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Tower was given serious consideration by President Reagan for the post of

defense secfeta|7 and may get the nod after he retires following the next session.

Towers views do not predominate in the 86th Congress but they, considering his expertise, are more than valid in the debate over defense spading.

The Texan said he was enormously dissa-pointed in the $250 billion military spending package that was approved and sent to the White House on the final day of the session.

We shiMild do more, he said. The nature of the threat that confronts the United States of America continues to grow at a relentless pace.

The vested interests we have in various areas of the world that must be defended are constants that do not go away, and yet to save a few bucks, make some minimal impact on the deficit, we underfund our defense requirements.

To make his point. Tower said that in each

of the last three years, the administration has made concessions on the defense budget before it was sent to Capitol Hill, the congressional budget resolution has lowered the total and then appropriations bills dig even deeper.

These are the figures Tower provided: for fiscal 1982, the final figure was $7 billion below the administration rMuest; for fiscal 1983, the reduction was $18 billion; and for fiscal 1984, the drop was $18 billion.

Tower said the defense appropriation bill represented a mere 3 percent increase in defense spending, which he noted was smaller than the one included in Great Britians defense budget.

Let us be veryq:areful about how we point a finger at our NATOlsfethren, Tower said.

Yet, Tower omits some major points in his summation.

One is the inescapable conclusion that the

defense budget sent to Congress is inflated.

From the outset, the administration numbers players must have realized that Congress would trim military spending. Therefore, it would make eminent good sense to submit a budget with fat for the trimming.

Tower, while mentioning that Congress cut. does not point out that Congress also provided the Pentagon with every big-ticket weapons system, including the MX missile. The only system that did not survive was a new generation of nerve gas weapons.

A third point, one which undoubtedly does not rank high with Tower, is that Congress was in a vicious squeeze.

The anticipated deficit grew almost daily and the cuts in domestic program had already shredded Reagan's safety net . &quot;&nbsp;There was no more that could be cut in that area.

Thats why Congress chose to prune the defense budget. There was no other fat left.

To the editor:

This letter is in response to your ^Seeing the Light editorial of Nov. 28,1983.

It is rare that I agree with your editorials, but this particular hooray I would support. I dont feel private schooling should be reason for tax credits, but, not because the money involved could be better spent on public schooling. The reason I would like to see the tax credit defeated is because it is one step toward making private schools less private. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~

Historically, our government will institute a scheme of this sort and several years later we will be hearing of church-sponsored schools that dont qualify for a tax credit becuase they teach religion or some other atrocity that is against the party line.

Having made this statement, 1 would like to say that public education is a historical mandate like a lot of mistakes we go on making. America became great because of free, enterprise and she is likely to go under because of government meddling (the other name for government meddling is Communism).

The fct that schooling is such a political issue is indicative that money and/or power is involved - thats pretty interesting because the teachers and students dont seem to be benefitted. Perhaps the cause of the smoke should be investigated.

Bob Misivra

Route 8, Greenville

To the editor:

Did you see The Day After?

It was horrible in many ways. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

It was a one-sided piece of political pleading. ABCs president said, Graphically, we are showing the core of the argument of those who are for a nuclear freeze.

The film is anti-American, leading the audience to believe that the United States and Russia are equally to be feared as the initiator of nuclear war. The film leaves the audience guessing as to which side launched its missile first, but implies it was the United States.

This is a vicious smear of America. It is also historically false, since U.S. nuclear missiles here have successfuly prevented nuclear war for the past 38 years.

The film is dishonest in leading the audience to believe there is no defense against nuclear attack. The truth is that we can build a non-nuclear space-based defensive system to shoot down incoming enemy missiles as urged by the president. Congress has not pushed the program. The freeze advocates are holding Congress back.

ABC was so anxious to air this Anti-America filming that they are willing to make a $7 million political contribution to ^ the nuclear freezniks and pacifists.

Very important evidence in the lack of realism is the failure of any character in the film to say a prayer. Were all the people atheist? For a period of 30 minutes prior to facing death, no one went to their church to ask for Gods help. Instead,They all went to the grocery store.

ABC deliberately encouraged children in the audience by (1) showing the film in prime time (2) mailing promotional study guides to every school in the country.

ABC has a moral and legal obligation under the Fairness Doctrine to give time to the contrasting views. The Bomb is not our enemy, it is Communism.

William A. Wright

Jk

Letters to Pablic Form should be Umited to 300 words. The editor reserves the right to cut longer letters.

George

Gallop

Poll

Art

Buchwold

I have to apologize for being so late with my think piece about the TV film The Day After, but Ive been thinking so much about it I havent had time to do anything else.

ABC, which produced the picture, went out of its way not to take sides as to who was responsible for trashing Lawrence, Kansas. They spent $7 million showing us what could happen after an area was mushroomed, but not one buck on what caused the holocaust in the first place.

I think they owed us just one scene between a few survivors discussing the why of it all.

The scene could have taken place between Jason Robards, who played the role of a doctor, and the last political science professor alive at the University of Kansas.

The men, covered from head to foot in atomic ash, are sitting on a pile of rubble that was once a nursery school.

What the hell do you think happened? Jason Robards asks the political science professor.

Nobody blinked, the professor replies.

What does that mean?

Well, it all goes back to the Cuban missile crisis. Remember when Dean Rusk said the Soviets and the U.S. came eyeball to eyeball, and the Russians blinked first? Ever since then

Time

PRINCETON. N.J. Democratic contender Walter Mon-dales lead over Sen. John Glenn has narrowed in the latest survey of the nomination choices of Democratic voters Mndale currently leads Glenn 34 percent to 23 percent In an early October survey Mndale was the choice of 40 percent of Democrats to'21 percent for his rival. In September the figures were 34 percent for Mndale and 23 percent for Glenn As the trend reveals, there is considerable volatility in the choices of voters at this early stage in the race for the nomination.

Rev. Jesse Jackson and 1972 presidential candidate George McGovern are in a statistical tie for third place. Jackson with 8 percent of the vote. McGovern with 7 percent.

Next are Alan Cranston with 3 percent, Reubin Askew with 2 percent, Gary Hart and-Ernest Hollings, each withT percent Three Hurdles Facing Candidates Every political hopeful faces three major hurdles in the rdce for the nomination:

1. Gaining name recognition

2. Gaining general acceptability among voters

3. winning the solid support of voters

Mndale. Glenn, McGovern and Jackson have high name recognition - upwards of 8 in 10 Democrats have heard of each.

The name recognition scores of the other tour candidates is far lower, with half or fewer of Democrats s'aymg they have heard of Cranston. Hart. Askew and Hollings.

' As the following tables clearly indicate, the standings of the candidates are closely related to name awareness:

Possible Democratic Nominees (Basedon Democrats)

Heard of

Mndale?,............. &nbsp;94%

McGovern....^........................86

Glenn.. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;85

Jackson .........................81

First choice

34%

23

8

our foreign policy was based on the premise that the Soviets would always blink before we did. Robards says, I guess we miscalculated.

The professor, looking over the desolation, says, That would be a fair statement. What the people in Washington refused to take into account was the Soviets considered the missile crisis the biggest defeat they suffered since world war II. They booted out Khrushchev and vowed they would never blink again.

Do you want an orange?

No, for some reason I feel nauseated. In order not to blink, the Soviets startedlan unprecedented! nuclear arms buildil|i. Soon, the military on both sides insisted the other side had nuclear superiority, so the arms race was on. The thinking in Washington and Moscow was the more deterrents they had, the less chance there was of someone starting a war.

Why didnt it work? Jason says. It worked for a while. But then the arms talks came, and both sides engaged in playing the numbers game. We promised not to put any cruise and Pershing missiles in Europe if the Soviets reduced the SS-20S. The Soviets said we had to include British and French missiles in the talks, and we refused. When neither side would bink, we started

deploying our new missiles, and the Russians walked out of Geneva. Why the hurry?

Because our credibility was at stake. Had we not gone ahead with the threat, the Soviets would have said Reagan blinked. If they hadnt walked out, we would have said An^ dropov blinked.

&quot;And thats when the missile race began in earnest?

You could say that. They surrounded us with all their nuclear warheads and we surrounded them, we got ourselves in a spot where any spark could set off Armageddon.

Didnt both sides realize this? The leaders were assured by their experts that the other side didnt have the guts to use their nukes because they knew they would also be wiped out in the process. The only way to keep the peace was to build more horrifying weapons until the other side came to its senses.

So why are we sitting on the rubble in Lawrence, Kansas, full of gamma rays?

I guess well never know, the professor says sadly. It might not even have been a human decision. With a response time of only six minutes to react, the whole thing could have been started by a faulty computer that wouldnt stop blinking.

Cranston

.....'......................52

Hart.........

38

1

Askew.......

...........................32

2

Hollings......

...........................30

(Basedon Independents)

1

Heard of

First choice

Mndale......

24%

McGovern

.................'..........86

8

Glenn.........

.........................82

25

Jackson.......

..........................81

4

Cranston

.......................51

2

Hart..........

...................... 38

1

Askew........

......................... 35

2

Hollings..............................28 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1

Acceptability

All Democrats and Independents in the survey who had heard of each candidate and had an opinion of him were then asked whether this person would be acceptable or unacceptable to them as the Democratic nominee for 1984.

Three-fourths or more of the sample i which includes Independents as well as Democrats to provide a larger sample base) say they would find Glenn and .Mndale acceptable In the next tier are Hart. Askew. McGovern and Cranston w ho are acceptable to approximately 6 in lu.

Acceptable to only about half, at present, are Hollings at .52 percent and Jackson at 38 percent. In the case ot Jackson, it should be borne in mind that 16 percent of Denypcrats currently say they would not vote for a black for piesident. although the trend has been sharply downward over the last two decades.

The latest findings are based on in-person interviews with adults. 18 and older, of whom 638 are Democrats and 441 Independents. The interviews were conducted m more than !oo scientifically selected localities across the nation diirinn the oeriod October 21-24.

For results based on the sample of Democrats, one can say with 95 percent confidence that the error attributable to sampling and other random effects could be 5 percentage points in either direction. The possible error for the Independents sample is plus or minus 6 points.

NmI

Yancay

Professor Was Able Storyteller

A few years ago no North Carolina moppets Christmas was complete unless the child had attended a reading of Dickens A Christmas Carol by Frederick H. Koch or at the very least had'heard it over the radio (there was no TV then).

Koch, founder and director of the Carolina Playmakers and head of the department of dramatic art at the University of North Carolina, was a superb actor who could make Morelys ghost, Scrooge or Tiny Tim more believable than Santa Claus.

Koch, often described as the father of folk drama in America, was as much a part of Christmas in the 1930s as

mistletoe and holly. He read Dickens immortal Christmas story several times every December and as many as 30 times some years. And he played to packed houses in Chapel Hill, Raleigh, Durham and other cities and towns. Frequently so many children - and parents - showed up that scores of persons had to be turned away. By the time Koch died in 1944 he had presented well over 200 readings of A Christmas Carol.

Koch came to Chapel Hill in 1918 after a stint as a professional actor and after working as an English instructor

A Reflector Reader Response

As a U.S. senator who voted in favor of President Reagans tuition tax credit propo^l on Nov, 16,1 disagree with the Nov. 28 Daily Reflector editorial which applauds the Senate defeat of that measure. The editorial is in error because it is based on three false premises.

First, the Daily Reflector disputes my Senate floor statement that the tuition tax credit plan woi^ld aid lower-income prople who cannot send their chijdren to private schools because they cannot afford to do so.

I staiKl by what I said. Under the presidents proposal, families whose annual income falls lelow $40,000 would be allowed a tax credit of up to $300 per year for each child attending, a private elementary or secondary school. While it is true that, as the editorial states, $40,000 is

Senator East Defends Position

hardly a low income, the tuition tax credit formula results in a greater proportional benefit to those on the lower end of this income range.

A family that has an annual tax bill of $2,000, for instance, would receive a far greater proportional tax break from a $300 tax credit than would a family that owes $10,000. Tlie -former receives a 15 percent reduction in taxes, while the latter gets only a 3 percent break.

Second, the editorial asserts that private schools are &quot;an outgrowth of the integration problems incurred in the 1960s and 1960s and carryover in todys public school systems where the white flight has eroded efforts to end segregation.

On the contrary, private schools existed long

before court-ordered racial quotas and busing in public school systems became controversial issues in American education. And they will continue long after those problems are solved.

Private schools are an integral, historic part of our pluralistic and diverse system of education. To say that they exist primarily to perpetuate racial segregation is an insult to-all those who are associated with them.

Third, and finally, the Daily Reflector characterizes President Reagans tuition tax credit plan as an effort to relegate public education to second or third billing on the list of national priorities. The implicit point is that a vote for tuition tax credits is a vote to harm public education.

This is not the case. Tuition tax credits would help public education. This is because

the availability of alternatives to public education strengthen it through competition. Moreover, the tax revenue loss represented by a tuition tax credit for a child who goes to a private school is quite small when conripared to the cost to local taxpayers of educating the same child at a public school. &quot;Thus, tuition tax credits are a net fiscal benefit to the public schools.

I am proud to have joined with Senate colleagues as politically diverse as Daniel P. Moynihan, D-N.Y., Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., William Proxmire, D-Wis., John Tower. R-Texas, Bill Bradley, D-N.J., and Orrin Hatch. R-Utah, in supporting the presidents tuition tax credit plan.

John P. East

United States Senator

at the University of South Dakota.

Koch, a short, wiry man with a mane of white hair who usually sported a Norfolk jacket, a soft tweedy hat and a briar pipe, was a distinguished figure as he strode about the UNC campus and the streets of Chapel Hill. He was always accompanied even in class by his lox terrier Pats\. or one of her predecessors. He called himself a monomaniac because he had literally lived the theater since he began presenting one-man shows in church auditorium&gt; as a youngster.

Koch, who was.known as Proff (for professor&lt; by virtually everyone, got his playwriting students to turning out plays by convincing them (mostly by humor) that jhey should strive to portray the drama in their own lives and that it did not make sense for youngsters from the North Carolina mountains or the Coastal Plain to try to write Park Avenue comed\

Endowed with the mobile face of an actor and an inexhaustible fund of stories about the theater, about ilaywriting and about some of ..'his students who became amous. Koch was renowned as; a raconteur who kept his visitors entertained for hours on end. One of the first things he would confide was that Thomas Wolfe's tirst successful writing was for the playmakers.'

'Wolfes play The Return of Buck Gavin' was written in the winter of 1918-19 when Wolfe, who was too young to enlist, was the only male in Kochs playwriting class. Wolfe also played the part of Buck wlfk his play was staged, and his entrance line, 1 brung you some violets. was quoted at Chapel Hill for years thereafter.

Although many of the playmakers went on to become successful actors on the stage or in Hollywood (Sheppard Strudwick was one), Koch was prouder of those who wrote plavs out of their own experience or set out to try to do in other places what Koch had done in North Carolina and South Dakota.

