The Daily Reflector, Gfeenvllle, N.C

Tuesday, November 1,1963

Mrs. Mizzelle Is Honored

Mary L. Mizelle celebrated her 90th birthdav yesterday. She was honored at a buffet dinner Saturday at the home of her daughter and son-in-law, Doris and John Harris, of Greenville.

Mrs. Mizzelles children attending were Harry Miwelle of Greenville, Maxine Moore of Odessa, Tex., Kermit Mizzelle and wife, Bonnie Sue, of Orange Park, Fla., Hazel McDaniel of Lexington, S.C. She also has a son, Monroe Mizzelle, of East Berlin, Pa. who was 'unable to attend. Her grandchildren present were Judith Driggers of Columbia, S.C., Lee McDaniel and wife, Ella Mae, of Lexington, S.C., John Moore IV and wife, Kookie, of Odessa, Tex., Uewellyn and McGowan and husband, Carlyle, of Greenville and great-grandchildren. Levin and Robin McGowan of Greenville and Josie McDaniel of Lexington, S.C.

Special guests were Verna Whitehurst of Greenville, Inez Bland of Live Oak, Fla., Thomas Bishop of Lexington, S.C. Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Harris of Winterville.

Mrs. Mizzelle was remembered with gifts and a decorated birthday cake.

At Wits End

By Erma Bombeck

Bold Stripes And Cheeks

PUSHING PEDDLEPUSHERS - Models show WilliWear fashions, by designer WilliSmith. .^or spring 1984 in New York vesterdav. The trend this season is boldness in

In 1979 there were approximately 31,000 youth adjudicated in North Carolina Thirteen thousand of these were adjudicated for misdemeanors; 7000 for felonies. 4,000 were adjudicated as runaways; 3700 as truants; and 2300 as ungovernable.

stripes and checks in peddlepushers and jodpur full-length pants for women. (AP Laserphoto)

Cooking Is Fun

The Greenville Police Departments Crime Prevention Officer will provide a security inventory at your home on request. You will be advise on proper locks, burglary prevention and safety measures. Call 752-3342 for more information.

Remember the other day when I wrote about my impatience to become a grandmother?

I didnt see why my children were punishing me by refusing to give birth and provide me with a few billfold-sized photos to pass around and a couple of cute stories. After all, it seemed such a little thing to ask for a mother who gave up being Joan Collins because she wanted to stay home and be a professional martyr.

Well, a grandmother named Janet in Riverside, Calif., has come to &quot;save me in the nick of time. Get hold of yourself, she warned. Time has erased the ravages of war from your mind and you are vulnerable to attack. The woman is obviously hysterical.

Yesterday.&quot; she continued. &quot;I accompanied my 13-year-old granddaughter and her mother on a shopping trip for clothes. Try to remember how you offered lovely blouses, skirts and sweaters off the rack to your children which they sniffed and rejected. And remember the shock when you saw your kids on their knees reverently worshipping a Goodwill reject priced at $130.

It was only a phase.

Do you want to go through that again with a granddaughter? Are you ready for the New Wave, Punic, New Romantic, Things Remembered, Flashdance tacky? Everyone has to change, Janet She went on to write.

CNTUftV2l

Tipton &amp;&nbsp;Associates 756-6810

And what about ^^those horrible moments when the clerk gently lifted my charge card from my wallet as I frantically tried to revive my daughter from a coma? Her card had been snip-)ed in half three stores )ack when it was discovered she was $2,000 over the limit.

Come to think of it, Janet, I do remember a maxi leather coat that died from terminal dust in the closet and had to be put to sleep. And there was that business with the $30 jeans w-ith the knee ripped out that I paid $5 more for because they were guaranteed to shrink and fade. But were talking babies here ... babies who ... as I remember...

Kept hours like hamsters, played the piano with sticky fingers, flushed shoes down the toilet, put meal worms in the refrigerator next to the lettuce, crayoned on the fireplace, knew only one word: No! made their own formula for their own bottle, sat down when they no longer felt like walking, bit the dogs nose, locked themselves behind doors for which there were no keys, dialed direct to Hawaii, left a rainbow over the sofa with their damp drawers and..

Thanks, Janet. I needed that!

Fluorescent

Lighting

Lighting makes up about 2 percent of the homes total energy useage, or about 10 )ercent of the total electric )ill. Thats not much, but why waste it, ask housing and home furnishings extension specialists at North Carolina State University.

One of the easiest ways to save is to use fluorescent lighting. It is three to five times as energy efficient as incandescent lighting and the* fluorescent tube lasts 10 to 20

times longer. Savings can average 40 to 45 percent.

For example, a 24-watt fluorescent tube gives off as much light as a 100-watt incandescent bulb, but costs only a fourth as much to operate. While fluorescent tubes may cost more to buy, the savings in energy and replacement more than make up for the difference in cost. Fluorescent lighting also generates less heat - a plus in warm weather.

WHY STORE THINGS you never use .Sell them for cash with a Classified Ad

wir

214 E. SUi SI.

7S2-0S5

Mon.-f rt. 9-5. S*t. 9-1

jMlry Rpalr*Wtlch Rtpair All Wort Dono On Promlio Mo*l Ono^) Sofvlco

Tetteiion Jewelers

Enpriying (Alio Intldo ringi)

Wlcti( ElKtfOrtctlly TlmMl BlNoriOi foi All Wilchoi

PnSBUKiH

P A I N 1

THC PAINT CENTER

600 Arlington Boulevard Carptit A In-Stock Wallpaptr 756*7611

8

RE-ELECT

STUART SHINN

CITY COUNCIL Thank You For Voting On Tuesday, November 8th

Paid For By CommlttM To R-Elact Sluarl SNInn

By CECILY BROWNSTONE .Associated Press Food Editor LIGHT SUPPER * Farina Squares &amp;&nbsp;Salad

Complete Line Of Unfinished Furniture

Crisp Red Apples &amp;&nbsp;Coffee

FARINA SQUARES Patterned after Italian Gnoc-

chi.

24 cups water 1 teaspoon salt ^4 cup farina &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;,

3 ounces grated (medium fine) sharp cheddar

cheese

packed)

cup slightly

In a medium saucepan over high heat bring the water and salt to a boil; stirring constantly pour in the farina. Bring to a boU again and then over gentler heat, stirring constantly, cook until very thick - a matter of minutes. Off heat, stir in h cup of the cheese so it is distributed evenly. Turn into a buttered 8 by 8 by 2-inch pan; cool; cover pan with saran; chill. Line a cookie sheet with foil and generously butter the foil. Cut the farina into 2-inch squares; with a spatula remove squares and arrange them, well apart, on the foil-lined pan. Srinkie squares with the remaining cheese. Broil 6 to 8 inches from high heat until hot through and topping is melted -

a matter of minutes, remove with a wide spatula and serve at once. Makes 16 squares.

FAMILY DINNER

Fish 4 Potatoes Green Salad 4 Vinaigrette Apple Cobbler 4 Beverage

VINAIGRETTE French-style salad dressing.

^ cup red wine vinegar 2 teaspoons prepared Dijon mustard ^ teaspoon salt V4 teaspoon pepper '4 cup olive oil Into a jar with a screw-top cover turn the vinegar, mustan, salt, pepper and oil; cover tightly and shake thoroughly. Store in refrigerator. Just before using, shake until blended. Makes 1 cup.

BEDWETTCR

LET THEM HAVE A DRY BED

The greatett gilt you can give a badweUer and the retl of lha family, too. it an end to this terioui problam. and make no mistake, bedwetting it lerious. II can cause complicated psychological pfoblama that Iasi a llfetima. It's so naadlass ba-cauta badwaltlng. whan nol causad by organic dtlacl or ditaata, can ba andad. Sand lor ou^a brochura, &quot;Badwatting I Whal Its All About and How'To End It&quot;, a report by two madical doctors. No obligation.

&quot;Equally Effective for Adults&quot;

MaN to; PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL. LTD.

555 Birch Street / Nekoosa. Wl 54457

PARENTS NAME __

I ADDRESS

ACVtTlSED I CITY-

fAKIItl

imM

i Pacilic Inlernalional Lid 1978

I I I I I I I I I I

(Ages 4 . Ml I

AGE.

WE HELP SOME DOCTORS CHILDREN

ANNOUNCING...

SATURDAY &amp;&nbsp;EVENING OFFICE HOURS

For your convenience we will be open for examinations and optical services Wednesday evenings and Saturdays from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Affordable fees, quick, accurate service. Convenient Hours. Seeing is Believing.

DR. PETER W. HOLLIS 0PIQMC1NC

etc CARC GENFER

O.D., S.A.

IiPION ANNfx ,)?8 GREENvait bn/D

756-9404

P

I

'20

OFF

Any Complete P'escr otion Eyeglasses Or Contact lens F ttmg

Must Be Presenied A: T rne Qf Oroe' Otner Discounts Or CouDons Do Not AoDiy

Coupon Expires Nov 5, 1983

*1

I

I

I

I

J

WEDNESDAY ONLY!

REMINGTON-NORELCO SHAVER TUNE UP/REPAIR SAME DAY SERVICE

If Your Shaver Is Over Two Years Old,

It Should Be Serviced. Expert Servicemen CHECK CLEAN OIL ADJUST

$4.00 Discount Off Mfg. Sug. Price On All Norelco Heads &amp;&nbsp;Blades with Tune Up

SAVE MONEY!! ... Regardless of Running Condition . Your Old Shaver can be renewed for a lot less than the cost of a New Shaver .. Motor Overhaul, Cord or Battery Shaver $17.9$-complete. Heads and Blades available for most: Ronson, Sunbeam, Schick, Braun, Eltron, Norelco and Remington,

Wed. Nov 2 From 10 A.M. til 3 P.M.

J.D. DAWSON CO.

CATALOG SHOWROOM

2818 E. Tenth St. Greenville

Ring up more sales with 800service

Making it more convenient for customers to call you is just one of the advantages to 800 service from Carolina Telephone. It can also strengthen your profit potential by allowing customers to respond immediately to your sales literature and advertising messages. And because the call is free to customers, 800^ser,\ice makes it easier for them to reach you frorh just about anywhere. Which means you can actually extend your business into unlimited territories! If youre still not convinced that 800 ser\'ice is the fastest way to ring up more sales, then ask your business neighbors whoVe already subscribed. For more information on a Toll Free number for your customers, call us toll free!

^ Rocky Mount area call 1-800-682-8000 i the Fayetteville area call 1-800-682-5000 Bern area call 1-800-682-6000

United Telephone .System .

Caroina Telephone