BAnSCH&amp;lOIIB

softeonUetlenses

*139 Complete

Complete fee includes eye examination, fitting instructions, follow-up care, contact lenses, care kit, and an eyeglass prescription. Most soflens can be worn out of the office the same day as the examination.

Carolina Eye Center

Drs. Mitchell &amp;&nbsp;Mitchell, Optometrists, PA

Family Eye Care and Contact Lenses

r'arkvlew Commons

_ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stantonsburg &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Road

.Telephone 752-4380 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Greenville, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;N.C.

help for those children already involved and even more determined to invent the rest from bectnning involved, she said.

Mrs. Nalepka said she learned of the epidemic levels of use when a teenage neighbw asked her to (Mt)-vide transpcxtatioa to a rock cwicert.

Her sons were only 5 and 9 and her reasons for becoming an activist were simple.

I was terrified for my own children, angry that it was happening to anyones children and determined to help stop it, she said.

She baked bread for the children to eat when they came home from school and in other ways provicted a good upbrin^ng and a nice warm bomeUfe, all the things meant to make a kid feel secure.

But when she witnessed young people tripping on drugs and alcohol during the rock concert, Mrs. Nalepka said she saw that more was needed if her children were to be protected.

The way to protect any children against the drug epidemic, she said, is with education that starts at age 6 or 7. But even that may be too late.

She said one way to protect children against the po^ibil-ity of drug abuse is by teaching them about the responsible use of even over-the-counter drugs.

Take orange-flavored aspirin for children. Mrs. Nalepka said children should be taught that its medicine, and eating it like candy can

%

be dangerous.

Bob Kramer, NFPs new president, said the federation can give parents guidelines that will prevent the spread of drug use among adolescents - and help parents see when they neea to seek professskmal treatment.

I learned the hard way -afto* my boys were alrtady so b^vUy involved that both needed treatment, said Carolyn Burns of Burtonsville. Md., director of the NFP Nancy Reagan Speakers Bureau.

Theres lois more help

available now and we want to share it.

&quot;My advice to parents is, get yourself educated, prevent drug use by younger children, get help for those already using drugs.

Our family was hurt but still we feel lucky. NFP gets many calls from parents whose children have committed suicide or died as a result of an accident caused by drug or alcohol. We want you to pick up that phone and call.

The toll-free number is (800)554-K-I-D-S.

Elks

Bom to Mr. and Mrs. Reading Neil Elks, Grimesland, a daughter, Laura Neal, on Nov. 15,1963, in Pitt Memorial Hospital.

Briley

Boro to Mr. and Mrs. Rudolf^ Cornilus Briley, 432 Wedgewood Arms Apartments, a son, Christopher Shaun, on Nov. 15, 1963, in Pitt Memorial Hospital.

McArthur Boro to Mr. and Mrs. James Dawson McArthur, 274 Circle Drive, a son, James Dawson Jr., on Nov. 15, 1983, in, Pitt Memorial Hospital. '

Lynch

Born to Mr. and Mrs.

James Lynch, Oak City, a daughter, Kenya Latrice, on Nov. 16, 1983, in Pitt Memorial Hospital.

Williams Boro to Mr. and Mrs. Ricky Donnell Williams, Chocowinity, a son, Christofrfier Eugene, on Nov. 16, 1983, in Pitt Memorial Hospital.

Taft

Born to Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Winslow Tah, 107 Crown Point Road, a daughter, Janie Pendleton, on Nov.

16, 1983, in Pitt Memorial Hospital.

Forbes

Born to Mr. and Mrs. Thompson Hollingsworth Forbes Jr., Route 3, Greenville, a son, Thompson Hollingsworth III, on Nov. 16, 1983, in Pitt Memorial Hospital.

Scholtens Born to Mr. and Mrs. William Ral[^ Scholtens, 311 Crestline Blvd., a daughter, Stephanie Marcella, on Nov.

17, 1983, in Pitt Memorial Hospital.

By CECILY BROWNSTONE Associated Press Food Editor LIGHT FARE Chicken Sandwiches Fruit Conserve Cupcakes &amp;&nbsp;Beverage FRUIT CONSERVE Good to have on hand to serve with sliced meats and poultry. 20K)unce can crushed pineapple in syrup 2 cups sugar 16 ounces cranberries 2 oranges, grated rind of 1 and membrane-free pulp of. other &gt;2 cup raisins h cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Drain pineapple well; add enough water to the pineapple syrup to make 2 cups. In a large saucepot over low heat, stir together the pineapple syrup mixture and sugar until sugar dissolves. Add cranberries; do not cover or stir; bring to a boil and boil until cranberries pop -5 to 10 minutes. Add drained pineapple, orange rind and pulp and raisins. Boil gently, stirring often, until thick - about 15 minutes. Stir in walnuts. Makes about 6 cups. Store, tightly covered, in the refrigerator. This conserve is not overly sweet.

A New Best Seller

CHEETAH PRINT PANTYHOSE - Model Dawna MUler shows a best seller in pantyhose by James Casty for Easton Print Plant, Inc. which makes its own line and also prints for oUier manufacturers. (UPI Telephoto)

All Framing 20%

off

Now Until Christmas

Gallery

INSIDE STEINBECKS DOWNTOWN 752-7076

Welcome to teaching. Miss Stevenson.

Your mission is to teach 26 frst-graders how to read. Shi^d you decide to accept the job you will be reinforced by every modern bit of technology known to education, including visuals, computers and teaching aids.

You will have the confidence of the parents, the support of the administration and the love of the children. You have nine months in which to accomplish this miracle with three and a half weeks of holidays and an occasional closing of the schools for an Act of God. Good luck.

Oh, just one thing. You wont forget to instill good nutrition habits, teach the gifted, the neurologically impaired, the emotionally disturbed, and develop civic responsibility, will you? Good.

And check for head lice, make sure they have a hot breakfast, collect milk money and arrange their transportation to and from school.

Did I mention eye testing and inoculations and instruction of first aid procedures? It goes without saying you will provide sex education ... in a tasteful way, of course.

By the way, dont forget to maintain birth information and age certification data, be on the lookout for child abuse, and collect money for the repairing of the Statue of Liberty.

And youll have to make time to build economic awareness, assist in bladder control, stress bilingual development and eliminate sex discrimination.

Just be glad. Miss Stevenson, you arent in secondary education. They have to assist in career planning, money management, teach kids how to drive a car, counsel them in their career, place them in jobs, identify and solve alcohol And drug abuse problems, and counsel them in pregnancy.

Youre fortunate. All you have is bicycle safety, iraining in pulmonary resuscitation, promotion of physical fitness and metrics, building self-

w(th and respect, and instilling in them a sense of patriotism.

Teaching them to read, I know, sounds simple, but its important. But then so is daily fund-raising, protecting students privacy, following due process procedures, counseling problem children, maintaining discipline, fostering integration, and teaching the principles of free

enterprise.

All we expect from you is to give the public what they want... a back-to-basics education. Good luck, Miss Stevenson. Miss Stevenson? MISS STEVENSON!

Another one self-d^tructed. No om wants to teach kids how to read anymore.

About 2,300,000 North Carolinians use alcohol.

Joseph V&quot;

Vm Nm4 TIw Im( TypMxttw SanlM. Od On Bonrd JoMph'i TypnwrHar TarrHory-Snrvicn For WMTypMrMnrs.

355-2723

cm Rae# On Your Typowrltw

jowolf llosnlrWci SRWlr

M Wort. Oww On &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Horn &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;OnoOn

Tetterton Jewelers

EnffMtiii (AM moMo rtngo) WiWwo BoouonMlly Ttmod MiMMForAHWMehM    

Mon.-FrL SM. S-1

OmtMVowo

PmSBUIGH

PAINT 8

A I N

THE FAWT CENTER

600 Arlington Boulevard Carpstt I In-Stock Wallpapor 756-7611

Heritage and Lenoir Streets

Kinston, N.C.

919-523-7002

Pre-Christmas

Warehouse Sale

Mens Beeutiful Plaid Shirts

Ladies Dresses-

Large Selection Of Ladies Blouses- Great Savings On Sweaters

December 3.1983 Saturday 8:00 til 2:00

Nantuckets Retail Store In Greenville Will Also Have A Pre-Christmas Sale With Selected Merchandise Drastically Reduced:

Sale Starts Wed., Nov. 30th Thru Dec. 3.

Tuesday Night Is Hallmark Night!

All merchandise from Hallmark 20%

Christmas cards gift wrap party goods puzzles playing cards photo albums scrapbooks candles stationery

(counter cards excluded)

6:00 til 9:00 ONLY

114 E. 5th St.

Unfinished Furniture

CHIPPENDALE

PLANTER

COMPARE AT

521 West lOth St. Beside The Railroad Depot 752-3223